# Describe all the components needed to design a system like BookMyShow.

Design BookMyshow:

❏ Let's design an online ticketing system that sells movie tickets like
Ticketmaster or BookMyShow.

❏ A movie ticket booking system provides its customers the ability to purchase
theatre seats online.

❏ E-ticketing systems allow the customers to browse through movies currently
being played and to book seats, anywhere anytime.

Requirements and Goals of the System:

❏ Functional requirements:

    ❏ Our ticket booking service should be able to list different cities where its affiliate cinemas are
    located.
    ❏ Once the user selects the city, the service should display the movies released in that particular
    city.
    ❏ Once the user selects a movie, the service should display the cinemas running that movie and
    its available showtimes.
    ❏ The user should be able to choose a show at a particular cinema and book their tickets.
    ❏ The service should be able to show the user the seating arrangement of the cinema hall.
    ❏ Waiting customers should be serviced in a fair, first come, first serve manner.
    ❏ Users should be able to put a hold on the seats for five minutes before they make a payment
    to finalize the booking.

❏ Non-Functional Requirements:

    ❏ The system would need to be highly concurrent. There will be multiple booking requests for
    the same seat at any particular point in time. The service should handle this gracefully and
    fairly.

    ❏ The core thing of the service is ticket booking, which means financial transactions. This means
    that the system should be secure and the database ACID compliant.

Capacity Estimation:

❏ Traffic estimates: Let’s assume that our service has 3 billion page views per
month and sells 10 million tickets a month.

❏ Storage estimates: Let’s assume that we have 500 cities and, on average
each city has ten cinemas. If there are 2000 seats in each cinema and on
average, there are two shows every day.

❏ Let’s assume each seat booking needs 50 bytes to store in the database.

❏ So, to store all the data about all shows of all cinemas of all cities for a day:

    ❏ 500 cities * 10 cinemas * 2000 seats * 2 shows * (50+50) bytes = 2GB / day

System APIs:

❏ SearchMovies(api_dev_key, keyword, city, lat_long, radius,
start_datetime,end_datetime, postal_code,includeSpellcheck,
results_per_page, sorting_order)    

❏ ReserveSeats(api_dev_key, session_id, movie_id, show_id,
seats_to_reserve[])

Database Design:

❏ Each City can have multiple Cinemas.

❏ Each Cinema will have multiple halls.

❏ Each Movie will have many Shows and each Show will have multiple
Bookings.

❏ A user can have multiple bookings