# Describe all the components needed to design a system like Twitter.

Designing Twitter:

❏ Let's design a Twitter-like social networking service. Users of the service will
be able to post tweets, follow other people, and favorite tweets.

❏ Twitter is an online social networking service where users post and read short
140-character messages called "tweets."

❏ Registered users can post and read tweets, but those who are not registered
can only read them. Users access Twitter through their website interface,
SMS, or mobile app.

Requirements and Goals of the System:

❏ Functional Requirements:

    ❏ Users should be able to post new tweets.

    ❏ A user should be able to follow other users.

    ❏ Users should be able to mark tweets as favorites.

    ❏ The service should be able to create and display a user’s timeline consisting of top tweets
    from all the people the user follows.

    ❏ Tweets can contain photos and videos.

❏ Non-functional Requirements:

    ❏ Our service needs to be highly available.

    ❏ Acceptable latency of the system is 200ms for timeline generation.

    ❏ Consistency can take a hit (in the interest of availability); if a user doesn’t see a tweet for a
    while, it should be fine.

Capacity Estimation and Constraints:

❏ Let’s assume we have one billion total users with 200 million daily active
users (DAU).

❏ Also assume we have 100 million new tweets every day and on average each
user follows 200 people.

❏ If, on average, each user favorites five tweets per day we will have:
❏ 200M users * 5 favorites => 1B favorites

❏ Let’s assume on average a user visits their timeline two times a day and visits
five other people’s pages.

❏ On each page if a user sees 20 tweets, then our system will generate
28B/day total tweet-views:

❏ 200M DAU * ((2 + 5) * 20 tweets) => 28B/day

High Level System Design:

❏ At a high level, we need multiple application servers to serve all these
requests with load balancers in front of them for traffic distributions.

❏ On the backend, we need an efficient database that can store all the new
tweets and can support a huge number of reads.

❏ We also need some file storage to store photos and videos.

Cache:

❏ We can introduce a cache for database servers to cache hot tweets and
users.

❏ Application servers, before hitting database, can quickly check if the cache
has desired tweets.

❏ Which cache replacement policy would best fit our needs?

❏ When the cache is full and we want to replace a tweet with a newer/hotter tweet.

❏ Least Recently Used (LRU) can be a reasonable policy for our system. Under this policy, we
discard the least recently viewed tweet first.

❏ Replication and Fault Tolerance

❏ Load Balancing

